---
title: "MHRP: Trainign Day - Act 1"
author: Austin
date: 2016-06-08
categories: [RPG, MHRP]
tags: [rpg, marvel, mhrp, marvel heroic roleplaying, metalgear solid]
---

#### Event:  Training Day

*[Raiden](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1p-WQgYI7Ct9d_1YGmA7DXQ6TMRv-c2dUVo1vQdtRU7M/edit?usp=sharing)'s
first "solo gig."  Tony Stark has sent Raiden to be cheif
of security to tarnsport a Prime Minister in the Middle
East.  The Prime Minister has been pro-mutant and this has
divided his country.  Several Private Military Companies
have taken opposition to this.  Riaden needs to find out
who is at the bottom of this and stop them if he can.*

-----

#### Act 1:

*The Prime Minister's daytime tranport has been attacked on
an empty street by Sentinels.*

**Doom Pool: 2d6**

| +1  XP | Make a philosphical statement |
| +3  XP | Kill a Sentinel |
| +10 XP | Find out who attacked the Prime Minister |

-----

Raiden is riding with the Prime Minister in a limo.  The
limo is attacked by a Sentinel ([Data
File](http://marvelheroicrp.wikia.com/wiki/Sentinel_Mark_VI_(Watcher_Datafile)))
who blows up the front of the car.  Raiden is able to
summersault out, taking the Prime Minister with him.  The
Sentinel fires a retractable hand at Raiden which catches
him because he was checking on the Prime Minister.

<a href="https://i.ytimg.com/vi/DD9qlqcNnXg/hqdefault.jpg"><img src="https://i.ytimg.com/vi/DD9qlqcNnXg/hqdefault.jpg" style="height: auto; width: 30%; float: right"></a>

Raiden tries to break free from the grasp but cannot.  he
tries to reach his sword but can't do that eaither.  Under
duress he goes into his "Jack the Ripper" personality and
is able to wrestle enough space to reach his sword and
slash himself free.  The Sentinel tries to blast Raiden,
but the attack is dodged and Raiden slashes the Sentinel.
Whilst the Sentinel tries to grab Raiden with its remaining
hand, Raiden stabs the plam, then proceeds to decapitate
the Sentinel.

As Raiden is in a crazed mode, War Machine ([Data
File](http://vignette3.wikia.nocookie.net/marvelheroicrp/images/1/1c/Wm-data-file1.jpg/revision/latest?cb=20120729204251))
flies onto the scene and opens gatling gun fire on Raiden.
But, Raiden is agile enough to avoid taking hits.  War
Machine lands and says that he was sent by Iron Man as
reinforcement and "wanted to be sure whose side Raiden was
on."  Raiden has calmed down, but isn't happy with Iron Man
for sending a babysitter.

Before the two can argue, they're attacked by another
Sentinel.  War Machine provides cover fire while Riaden
rushes in and slashes a leg off the Sentinel.  The Sentinel
tries to grab Raiden, but he cuts of the hand.  War Machine
fires his repulsor beams and that finishes off the
Sentinel.

However, a menacing force glides by, sticking to the
shadows.  War Machine's sensors fail to detect it.  While
War Machine is separate from Raide, the mysterious foe in
the shadows attempts to control War Machine's mind and
threaten him to leave, that he is far worse than any
Sentinel, and that they can't even "what his master has in
store for them."

<a href="https://i.computerbild.de/imgs/1/7/4/0/5/4/7/Actionspiel-Metal-Gear-Solid-4-Vamp-422x395-773899375f693319.jpg"><img src="https://i.computerbild.de/imgs/1/7/4/0/5/4/7/Actionspiel-Metal-Gear-Solid-4-Vamp-422x395-773899375f693319.jpg" style="height: auto; width: 30%; float: left"></a>

Raiden notices the figure and runs back, yelling at War
machine.  War Machine snaps out of the daze and opens fire
on the shadows.  The figure appears wounded, but fleas into
a dark building.  War Machine wants to pursue, but Raiden
convinces him to take the Prime Minister somewhare safe
since War Machine can fly.

Before leaving War Machine is able to run a video recording
of what he saw and heard thorugh a database and his
computer identifies the villain as Morbius ([Data
File](https://marvelplotpoints.files.wordpress.com/2014/12/morbiuswatcher.png)).
War Machine flies away with the Prime Minsiter while Riaden
sets out to puruse Morbius into the building.
