---
title: Mobile Data Compression Tools, Part I
author: Austin
date: 2016-03-03
categories: [Android]
tags: [android, apps, review, mobile, data]
---
<img style="float: right; height: auto; width: 40%" 
src="https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/jXp8p6_CzVWfyLjBB1JYo_VT-fmhzIN_2y2I9T181CNXJfvT1V4fztDSdMpjaRm8ytc=w300-rw">

Since switching to Project Fi with my Nexus 6p, I've been 
looking for ways to save data and ultimately put more cash 
in my pocket.  We all know the big data hogs like streaming 
services and prolific downloads.  Usually it helps to be 
mindful, if not outright restrictive, of these things.  
However, what's the point of having a high end device if 
you're not using it?

Enter data compression.  There are some handy VPN apps out 
there that stand between your device and wherever you're 
downloading / streaming / browsing content from.  They work 
by routing your content request through their servers which 
compress the content before delivering it to your device.  
There are some limitations, but you can read more about 
[the specifics of reducing mobile data consumption here on 
MakeUseOf](http://www.makeuseof.com/tag/4-ways-reduce-mobile-internet-data-usage-android-apps/).

The frist app I checked was the highly recommended [Opera 
Max](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.opera.max.global).  
The set up is pretty easy and I left all the options stock, 
only turning off WiFi compression.  Over the course of an 8 
day trial I found that Opera Max saved me about 2% data 
use. 

<img style="float: right; height: auto; width: 40%" 
src="http://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=0B2RH_BSaD6YPY01nUVJvSHk4WWs">

The 8 day trial should have been enough to level out 
variance in use.  For example, Opera Max did great at 
compressiong Instagram, but doesn't work on encrypted 
servers (such as email or https).

I suppose 2% is worth taking advantage of since the app is 
free and takes virtually no effort to set up.  The only 
draw back though seemed to be that it's a bit of a battery 
hog.  Though the Nexus 6p gets fantastic battery life, 
you'll have to weight whether or not the nock to battery 
life is worth the 2% data savings.  How close is your 
charger vs. how much data do you use (or need to save)?

To review of this information and more, see my [Project Fi 
Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1LRLNCjorZRZhR7dXDEX930pN1qOU0WpHueKJNh1zFOU/edit?usp=sharing) 
on Google Drive which has a lot of data I've collected 
about Project Fi and my Nexus 6p.

#### See Also:

- [Part Two - Onavo](https://gtbjj.github.io/android/2016/03/06/0928-Mobile-Data-Compression-pt2.html)
- [Part Three - Data Eye](https://gtbjj.github.io/android/2016/03/16/1302-Mobile-Data-Compression-pt3.html)
