---
title: "Dirtbag Day 028"
author: Austin
date: 2015-08-21
categories: [Essays, Climbing, Dirtbag]
tags: [dirbag, clmibing, jeff foxworthy, you might be a dirtbag if]
toc: false
---

Having been a full fledged dirtbag for a month now I feel qualified to make such a list in the spirit of Jeff Foxworthy's ```"You might be a redneck if..."``` jokes.  All of the below are true events / observations that have occurred in the past month.  If you'd like to add to the list, shoot me an email at [southeastdirtbag@gmail.com](mailto:southeastdirtbag@gmail.com) with the subject line "You might be a dirtbag".  So, without further delay, here we go.

### You might be a dirtbag if...

* You refill your chalk pot more often than you do laundry.

* You know which public restrooms in a 10 mile radius have the best toilet paper.

* You had more days at the crag than showers last week.

* You've had more flappers than showers in the last week.

* You understand and completely relate to the hashtag ```tradshinanigans```.

* You kow the business hours of every place in town you can mooch WiFi and AC... and which staff members to avoid.

* You change campsites more often than you change undies.

* You're on a first name basis with both the Park Ranger and the Wal-Mart staff.

* Instead of reading a newspaper you read your guidebooks each morning... again.

* You've sold nearly all your worldly possessions to fund a trad rack and / or backpacking gear.

* You've ever referred to the mountain approach as your driveway.

* You've considered relocating for a job and the first thing you do is check the map on Mountain Project to scope the climbing scene.

* You unashamedly "style" your hair with chalk, sweat, and a trucker hat.

* You've snidely been told "we don't have a public restroom" and, with a straight face, replied, "Okay, I'll **** in the parking lot."

* You've gone to get fingerprinted for a job and the staff curse the abundance of "scar tissue" on your fingertips.

* You've had to talk to the police in your underwear and explain why you're sleeping in a parking lot.
