---
title: Dirtbag Day 14
excerpt: "Darkness & Laughter"
layout: post
category:
- Climbing
tags:
- Goo Goo Dolls
- broadway
- Cedar Wright
- laughter
---
#### Week 2

A lot has been stirring with me the last couple days.  Wednesday and Thursday will were quite deep and difficult.  Simply put, it looks like I may be adding "unemployed" to my dirtbag resume sooner rather than later.  Thursday, then, I hit the phone calls and emails hard and managed to schedule a few interviews for today.... ya know, gotta keep your options open.  One the darker side of things; I'm not a huge Goo Goo Dolls fan, but it feels apt to say:

```
You'd love to go home
but you know you ain't got one
cuz you live in a world
where you're best forgotten
```

Of course, that pitch isn't too far off from what you'll find in Cedar Wright's [Dirtbagging is Dead](http://www.climbing.com/blog/the-wright-stuff-dirtbagging-is-dead/) article.

On the climber / dirtbag side of things though that brought up a really serious point.  For now, this is an adventure and the adventure is still fun... or at least worth it.  I will say, sum of the shimmer has worn off.  this is a very l onely path and I'm pretty sick of seeing Barnes & Noble and Walmart logos.  That said, a strange sort of 'normal' has set in.  No, this certianly isn't a vacation, but living day-to-day has it's own ways of developing routines and ritual pracitces -- though they may seem more like 'survival mechanisms.'

#### Laughter

I was people watching in a parking lot today (a frequent past time for the dirtbag) and saw a group of people -- three or four adults in their late 30s and a couple kids -- and several of the adults were laughing.  I don't mean a sheepish giggle.  I mean rumble and roar, knee-slapping, full on belly laughs.  I couldn't help of think of how pissed my grandma would be that peole would be making such a 'ruckus' or 'scene' in public.  I, on the other hand, felt a rich and warm smile spread across my face.  I wonder when the last time I, or my grandma, or anyone reading this was as happy as those people were walking across a parking lot on a hot Friday night?
