---
title: Dirtbag Day 13
excerpt: "Dirtbag Tips Vol. 2"
layout: post
category:
- Climbing
tags: [Dirtbag, Climbing, Tips, DirtbagTips, Water]
---
#### Water - Simple and Essential

At most camping locations you can find a water spigot not too far off.  However, in the event that you cannot there are still some options available which I'll discuss here as that is currently my situation.  A couple things to consider.  First, if you're a weekend warrior or just hitting the crag for an afternoon / day trip then it's not difficult to pack all the water you're willing to carry.  For longer term situations it's a different story.  Secondly, I'm not talking surrvivor-man-style here.  Although I'm an official dirtbag now, I'd like to make this life as comfortable as I can.  Basically, you can't practice survival skills and climb at optimal performance at the same time, they're inherently contradictory.  I'm also not talking about big wall trip either as that is a whole different animal.

#### Consumption:
How muh water do you use on a daily basis?  Remember to inclue cooking and cleaning (though these can be kept pretty minimal). I began this test process with 8 gallons  of bottled water (gallon jugs) that cost me $6.90 so even for a dirtbag, that's worthy researh investment.

> The Day:  80 - 85 `F, moderate humidity, mostly sunny, 1.5 hours of hiking, 2 - 3 hours of climbing.

> Water Consumption:  I drink a lot of water.  So for me modest cooking, skimpy cleaning and drinking totalled about 3 gallons on the test day.

> Notes:  The weather conditions were pretty modest for summer in the south, so 4 gallons might be a liberal estimate for any given day, or perhaps requisite on a particularly hot and steamy day.  On the other hand a conservative "make it stretch" mindset might work with 2 gallons with good weather.  One should also be awawre of observer biases.  I wasn't being particularly conservative with my consumption as I wanted the estimate to be both accurate and indicative of a comfortable and well hydrated day (as I said above not trying to skimp by on the bare minimum).

#### Cost:
There are a few options available.  I have a 7 gallon BPA free jug (< $15) which is optimal if there is a spigot, in my current location there is not (NOTE:  I don't know if it fits the refill station mentioned below).

__Option 1__:  Individual Gallon Jugs

> Cost < $1 / gallon (~$0.86 in my test)

> Pros:  You can get as much as you need at onece (i.e. several days' worth)

> Cons:  Storage space and waste could be an issue.

__Option 2__:  Large Office-Style Jug

> $12.00 for the first gallon, $0.37 / gallon on refills

> Pros:  Refillable

> Cons:  Limited amount per fill

#### Conclusion:
I'll spare you the maths and just say that the individual gallons are cheaper at the 10 gallon mark, but by the 20 gallon mark the office-jug is cheaper.  However, there are some practical things to consider.  The jugs will be reusable and for many different functions.  Also, the office-jug is meant for one thing; meaning it wont be very convenient to hoist overhead when yo uonly want a few swigs or to wrestle around (since it doesn't have a spout like the camping one I mentioned earlier) to fill other containers and cookware.  For me the individual gallons win on logistics.  Cheers!
