---
title: "Suburban Dirtbag: Week 9"
author: Austin
date: 2017-01-19
categories: [Climbing, Dirtbag]
tags: [climbing, goals, dirtbag, suburban dirtbag, stronger, trad daddy]
-----

In my last post 
I was planning on writing a counterpart post depicting the 
deeper, darker, grittier parts of a dirtbag lifestyle.  However, I've decided to ride the vibes.  That is, while the stoke is high, I'm going 
to let it be there and not drag it down.  There will be a time again for darkness, reflection, and introspection; but I'm choosing to save it 
for a rainy day -- in the future.

That said, lets review where the week has taken me so far:


<blockquote class="instagram-media" data-instgrm-captioned data-instgrm-version="7" style=" background:#FFF; border:0; border-radius:3px; 
box-shadow:0 0 1px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.5),0 1px 10px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.15); margin: 1px; max-width:658px; padding:0; width:99.375%; 
width:-webkit-calc(100% - 2px); width:calc(100% - 2px);"><div style="padding:8px;"> <div style=" background:#F8F8F8; line-height:0; 
margin-top:40px; padding:62.5% 0; text-align:center; width:100%;"> <div style=" 
background:url(data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAACwAAAAsCAMAAAApWqozAAAABGdBTUEAALGPC/xhBQAAAAFzUkdCAK7OHOkAAAAMUExURczMzPf399fX1+bm5mzY9AMAAADiSURBVDjLvZXbEsMgCES5/P8/t9FuRVCRmU73JWlzosgSIIZURCjo/ad+EQJJB4Hv8BFt+IDpQoCx1wjOSBFhh2XssxEIYn3ulI/6MNReE07UIWJEv8UEOWDS88LY97kqyTliJKKtuYBbruAyVh5wOHiXmpi5we58Ek028czwyuQdLKPG1Bkb4NnM+VeAnfHqn1k4+GPT6uGQcvu2h2OVuIf/gWUFyy8OWEpdyZSa3aVCqpVoVvzZZ2VTnn2wU8qzVjDDetO90GSy9mVLqtgYSy231MxrY6I2gGqjrTY0L8fxCxfCBbhWrsYYAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC); 
display:block; height:44px; margin:0 auto -44px; position:relative; top:-22px; width:44px;"></div></div> <p style=" margin:8px 0 0 0; padding:0 
4px;"> <a href="https://www.instagram.com/p/BPdzR15j-LV/" style=" color:#000; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; font-style:normal; 
font-weight:normal; line-height:17px; text-decoration:none; word-wrap:break-word;" target="_blank">2.25x bodyweight for 2 with a week of a base 
fitness / integrated strength to go! Many thanks to the wisdom and motivation from @wfmft @stevebechtel @powercompanyclimbing and the squad at 
@escaladerockclimbing // #climbing #bouldering #trad #strength #power #climbstrong #escaladestrong #getstrong #heavymetal 
#bettereveryday</a></p> <p style=" color:#c9c8cd; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; line-height:17px; margin-bottom:0; 
margin-top:8px; overflow:hidden; padding:8px 0 7px; text-align:center; text-overflow:ellipsis; white-space:nowrap;">A video posted by 
@savagezen on <time style=" font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; line-height:17px;" datetime="2017-01-20T00:13:13+00:00">Jan 19, 2017 
at 4:13pm PST</time></p></div></blockquote> <script async defer src="//platform.instagram.com/en_US/embeds.js"></script>

#### Stronger:

The beginning of the year is ripe for picking goals and starting anew.  So, I started by working on [integrated 
strength](http://www.powercompanyclimbing.com/blog/2016/12/19/episode-22-integrated-strength-training-with-steve-bechtel).  Even though I have 
a history in combat sports and weight lifting, it's good to check myself and see where I'm at.  I've got about one week left on the particular 
training protocol that I'm doing, though I may stretch it longer depending on if the weather cooperates and my sending stays on track with my 
[training pyramids](http://www.stevemaischtraining.com/using-a-route-pyramid-for-systematic-progress.html).

#### Goal Setting:

In my last post I talked about going towards your fears.  For me, that is roofs on gear since I took a huge, life threatening, whipper almost 
one year ago.  In one of the recent ```Board Meetings``` on the [Power Company Climbing podcast](http://www.powercompanyclimbing.com/podcast/) I heard Kris Hampton talk about treating trad redpoints link sport climbs.  Interestingly enough, I had gifted the Anderson brothers' [Rock Climber's Training 
Manual](https://www.amazon.com/Rock-Climbers-Training-Manual/dp/0989515613) to a friend and was reading the section on goal setting -- since 
this was around the new year.

Rather than establishing a seasonal or even anual goal, I took the longview.  Which, for me, happens to be trad climbing.  Bouldering is fun, 
and it is my go-to; but I **love** trad climbing.  So, therein my goal lay.  Rather than saying *"I want to climb (grade 5.whatever / 
V-whatever) in (however many) years."*  I said, "Here is a remarkable climb, or a climb that right now I imagine to be 'impossible'."  What do 
I need to do to **make it possible** even if it takes however long it takes!  

That lead me towards selecting a myriad of routes that were either legendary here in The South or that intimidated me (e.g. 5.10a roofs on 
gear).  My tentative solution was to rehearse the shit out of those climbs.  Abandon shame of the toprope and aid climbing.  I **want** to 
string a toprope and rehearse a few select climbs to the point where there is nothing left for my body to fear and the only thing left to 
conquer is my mind.  

With all that power, I chunked down what -- for now -- is a year-and-a-half "short term" plan of 5.12a; and a 5 or 6 year "long term" plan (of 
free climbing Heaven in Yosemite).

<img src="http://news.nationalgeographic.com/content/dam/news/2015/05/18/deanpotter/01dpapprec.jpg" style="width: 100%; height: auto">

<blockquote class="instagram-media" data-instgrm-captioned data-instgrm-version="7" style=" background:#FFF; border:0; border-radius:3px; 
box-shadow:0 0 1px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.5),0 1px 10px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.15); margin: 1px; max-width:658px; padding:0; width:99.375%; 
width:-webkit-calc(100% - 2px); width:calc(100% - 2px);"><div style="padding:8px;"> <div style=" background:#F8F8F8; line-height:0; 
margin-top:40px; padding:28.125% 0; text-align:center; width:100%;"> <div style=" 
background:url(data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAACwAAAAsCAMAAAApWqozAAAABGdBTUEAALGPC/xhBQAAAAFzUkdCAK7OHOkAAAAMUExURczMzPf399fX1+bm5mzY9AMAAADiSURBVDjLvZXbEsMgCES5/P8/t9FuRVCRmU73JWlzosgSIIZURCjo/ad+EQJJB4Hv8BFt+IDpQoCx1wjOSBFhh2XssxEIYn3ulI/6MNReE07UIWJEv8UEOWDS88LY97kqyTliJKKtuYBbruAyVh5wOHiXmpi5we58Ek028czwyuQdLKPG1Bkb4NnM+VeAnfHqn1k4+GPT6uGQcvu2h2OVuIf/gWUFyy8OWEpdyZSa3aVCqpVoVvzZZ2VTnn2wU8qzVjDDetO90GSy9mVLqtgYSy231MxrY6I2gGqjrTY0L8fxCxfCBbhWrsYYAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC); 
display:block; height:44px; margin:0 auto -44px; position:relative; top:-22px; width:44px;"></div></div> <p style=" margin:8px 0 0 0; padding:0 
4px;"> <a href="https://www.instagram.com/p/BPWXQ6XA9WJ/" style=" color:#000; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; font-style:normal; 
font-weight:normal; line-height:17px; text-decoration:none; word-wrap:break-word;" target="_blank">It&#39;s been a good day ðŸŒž morning at 
Rocktown, afternoon at Lost Wall. Ticked off a classic lead for my new cams&#39; first day out and spent time in a beautiful place with quality 
folks. What more can a gal ask for? #climbing #tradtobehad #wild</a></p> <p style=" color:#c9c8cd; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; 
font-size:14px; line-height:17px; margin-bottom:0; margin-top:8px; overflow:hidden; padding:8px 0 7px; text-align:center; 
text-overflow:ellipsis; white-space:nowrap;">A photo posted by Shan Mayo (@nahsoyam) on <time style=" font-family:Arial,sans-serif; 
font-size:14px; line-height:17px;" datetime="2017-01-17T02:53:44+00:00">Jan 16, 2017 at 6:53pm PST</time></p></div></blockquote> <script async 
defer src="//platform.instagram.com/en_US/embeds.js"></script>

#### Finding My Head:

With all of the above practices employed I was thrilled to have a competent belayer -- friend, mountaineer, and guide -- on hand.  A facet that 
is actually pretty rare these days.  Day 1 featured running laps on a toprope until I felt like I knew the gear and moves inside and out.  
*Unfortunately, the pitch I'll be talking about isn't the one pictured above.*

Day two featured some moderate to moderately hard bouldering in the morning and then trad climbing in the afternoon -- a compromise totally 
worth it!  I warmed up by toproping [the route in question](https://www.mountainproject.com/v/lost-and-found/106099211) (5.10a), and then set 
forth on the lead.  I realize that 10a isn't anything exceptional, but for me it brought back a lot of confidence.  I hadn't climbed hard (relatively speaking) on gear in almost a year, let alone 
on a pitch that featured a steep finish on small -- though acceptable -- gear mid crux.

To say the least, this was a mental victory.  The moves felt fairly easy actually, but it was -- as it often is -- putting it all together that 
counts.  So, after many, many, months of layoff this year's first lead matched my last year's redpoint.

This was much more than a case of *"The old man's still got it."*  But rather it materialized some of my goals.  Of course, I'm not going to 
run out and jump on my year long goal of 12a immediately, but it does make a seasonal goal of 10c much more tangible. 

