---
title: "AUR: dnd-tools"
author: Austin
date: 2017-06-08
categories: [Linux, Misc]
tags: [linux, arch, rpg, d&d, 5e, python, aur, open source, git]
---


I've stated before that I feel a great sense of accomplishment when I'm able to attain notable strides in my programming ability, particularly because that is not my trained profession.  Neverthless, today I submitted my first original package to the Arch User Repository (AUR); ```dnd-tools```.

~~~
Current Features:

- character generator: can be completely randomized, output is to stdout
- dice roller (any number of sides, any number of dice)
- wild magic effect roller (for sorcerers)
- tarokka (tarrot) card game (from Curse of Strahd)
~~~

I've maintained [serveral packages](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/?O=0&SeB=M&K=gtbjj&outdated=&SB=n&SO=a&PP=50&do_Search=Go) for a while now, but was only packaging them and inheriting them from upstream.  Actually, I simply migrated them from the old AUR to the new one (v4).  This time, I am the upstream and said upstream has been built entirely from scratch and by (my) hand.

Quite a while ago I created a python script to create Dungeons & Dragons (5e) characters and submitted it to my [scripts repo on GitHub](https://github.com/savagezen/scripts).  Previously this required the user to download the script and then tell python to execute it via command line.  You also had to reinitiate the script after running a specific function which was inefficient.

The installation process is much more fluid now.  Arch users can manually (or via a helper like Yaourt) install the package just like any other native binary; and execute it the same way as well.  A simple ```$ dnd-tools``` brings up an interactive prompt that is cycled back to after every or any function is run.

The project is [open source](https://github.com/savagezen/dnd-tools) and I also maintain a repo for the [PKGBUILDs for all the packages I maintain](https://github.com/savagezen/pkgbuild) so that others can collaborate and make suggestions that way as well.

~~~
Planned Features:

 - generate character to output file
  - import character file?
  - loot generator
  - spell sheet?
  - npc generator?
  - random adventure generator?
~~~

For Windows users, [the script is still avialable in the source code](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gtbjj/dnd-tools/master/scripts/dnd-tools).  See [instructions for running python script on Windows](http://pythoncentral.io/execute-python-script-file-shell/).
