---
title:  "BJJ Journal 001: Process & Goals"
author: Austin
date: 2020-05-04 21:40:00
categories: [BJJ, Journal]
tags: [bjj, journal, process, reflections]
---

Maybe one of the most difficult things about jiu jitsu is measuring progress.  I've had several notebooks, spreadsheets, and apps over the years.  They all have pros and cons and I'll get to those in a bit.

Lately, I've been going hard on the nutrition scene, but want to publicly publish some of my thoughts on jiu jitsu.  This is a new level to my training logs and aforementioned journals.  They've always been private prior.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Tc7gXMs3lRw" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

I've watched that video from Chewy several times and I've settled on two primary content areas for this category of this site.  1) processing experiences (should anyone care to read them or not, they're still a chronological snapshot for me), and 2) a list of goals or things to work on.

As I've mentioned before, I've used apps and posted screenshots to Instagram, etc... but the return has been minimal.  Writing in a paper journal takes more effort, but it also has a different impact on your neurocircuitry because of that.  Basically, apps are easy come, easy go.

I love spreadsheets.  However, it's more of the same.  All the meticulous data crunching in the world doesn't mean shit if you can't get out there on the mat in test / change some things.  I know, I'm a little tongue in cheek here, as typing in a blog post is basically same as typing on a phone / app.  Inevitably spreadsheets are clunky and apps are much more convenient though not as personalized.

I do agree, too, with Chewy that keeping a list of techniques trained on a give day isn't necessarily helpful unless you plan to start the next day by reviewing the previous.  There is so much to learn (and much of it we forget).  You've really got to be disciplined and realize that general group glasses are for the general student.  If there's something you like or are struggling with you may need to work with that at a different pace than class's schedule.

So, to summarize, I'll for sure be keeping a process journal on this site of "important experiences, good and bad."  As for techniques and training stats, I'm not sure as to how I would want to format that here.  These days, I just keep track of the number of drilling / sparring hours, and how much time I spend lifting, conditioning, and stretching to make sure I'm staying balanced ("keeping the goal the goal" as Dan John says) -- that is 75% of the time doing jiu jitsu, about 10% each strength and conditioning, then 5% pre-hab and injury prevention.


**Resources:**

* [BJJ Buddy App](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.ranknoodle.bjjbuddy2)
* [Marune App](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=social.marune.marune)
* [Reivew of "the" Jiu Jitsu Journal on Breaking Muscle](https://breakingmuscle.com/reviews/jiu-jitsu-journal-product-review)
