#### Earned Lore Rewards

#### Available Lore Rewards

> **The White Witch:**  There are stories from long ago, worlds away, that tell of a cruel warrior mage named Jadis, The White Witch, who represented the tynrannical nature of sin in her world.  Born of a royal bloodline of Djinn and Frost Giants, Jadis was born in the city of Charn, the capital city of a world bearing the same name.  Eventually there came a disupute over the throne of Charn between Jadis and her sister.  However, Jadis had long since been practicing dark magic "beyond what was proper" in her Charn.  With her army defeated, rather than surrender, Jadis cast a spell -- known only as The Deplorable Word -- to end all life in Charn excepter her own.  Being the sole living resitend of her world, she declared heself queen.  Jadis since attempted to conquer other world, but was ultimately defeated and her world sealed away from The Wood Between Worlds (a temporal connection to the Astral Plane).  Jadis eventually found a weakness between worlds and found that she was able to have influence over differing domains and their respective worlds.  Legends say that she has had influence influence in the world of Sanctuary before and has done so under the guise of the deity [Auril](http://forgottenrealms.wikia.com/wiki/Auril) -- contemptuous as she is cruel only ascending to quasi-godhood.  The White Witch is known for her preference of cold weather (here mere presence instigating regional climate change), strictly enforced rules, and executions.  It is said that she cannot tolerate treatson (even against her enemies as legends describe her as fighting even against other evil deities), the slightest suggestion of disloyalty, celebrations, or rulebreaking of any kind.  Rumors state that in her human form Jadis is meanacing presence of at least 8 ft. tall clad in a white fur robe lined in ice blue trim.  ([reference 1](https://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/Jadis_(3.5e_Deity)), [reference 2](http://narnia.wikia.com/wiki/Jadis))

> **Anu**:  "... according to legend, was hte very first being in creation.  it was Anu who fought the battle wiht the prime Evil Tathament (sometimes called Tiamat), their struggle leading to their deaths, but also the births of the heavens, hells, angels, and demons.  Anu once resided in a single perfect pearl and was the sum of all things:  good and evil, light and dark, physical and mystical, joy and sadness -- all reflected across the crystalline facets of its form.  Seeking a state of total purity and perfection, Anu cast all evil from itself.  All dissonance was gone... for a time.  These discordant parts formed into the being Tathamet / Tiamat, the first Prime Evil.  Though separate beings, Anu and Tathamet were bound within the pearl.  There they warred against each other in an unending clash of light and shadow for ages uncounted, neither gaining the upper hand.  At last, their energeies spent after countless millenia of battle, they delievered their final blows.  The energies unelashed by their impossible fury ignited an explosion of light and matter so vast and terrible that it birthed the very universe itself."  ([reference](http://diablo.wikia.com/wiki/Anu))

> **Tathamet**:  "... was the second being to exist in Creation.  The counterart of Anu, its creation and death lead to the birth of hellish outer domains.  Anu was the first being in Creation and sought a state of toal purity and cast all evil from itself.  However, these elements coalesced into a single being:  Tathamet, a seven-headed dragon that was the sum total of all evil.  Though seaparate entities, Anu and Tathamet were bound within the Pear that contained them.  There they warred against each other in an unedning battle for ages uncounted.  Tathamet, along with Anu, died in the final battle they had against each other.  Tathamet's blackened, smoldering husk spiraled into the lower darkness of reality.  From his putrid flesh arose the evil outer realms and the races that arose from them.  Allegedly his three strongest maws gave birth to three greater evils while the four lesser birthed lesser ones.  ([reference](http://diablo.wikia.com/wiki/Tathamet))

> **Pandemonium**:  "... is one of the realms of creation lying in "neautral territory, a crossroads of domains, belonging completely neither to the burning hells (hellish territories) or the high heavens (heavenly good territories).  Pandemonium is signficiant because it represents a "scar" of the universe's violent birth due to the battle between Anu and Tathamet.  It posesses 'warped reality' traits.  At the center of Pandemonium lay the Wolrdstone.  It was for this object that the Great Conflict was waged by angles and demons and consequently, most of the conflict fought within Pandemonium itself.  Pandemonium is made entirely of rock pierced by innumerable tunnels and caverns large and small.  All open space is filled with howling winds that carried the sound of every word, shout, or scream uttered in the place.  Wihtout adequate protection, being with hearing were rendered temporarily deaf in a matter of seconds and permanently deaf in a few minutes.  Normal fires cannot survive here and there is no natural light.  This is the outer realm between chaotic neutral and chaotic evil."  ([reference 1](http://diablo.wikia.com/wiki/Pandemonium), [reference 2](http://forgottenrealms.wikia.com/wiki/Pandemonium))

> **The Great Conflict**:  "... was a war between the forces of heaven and hell.  It has since spilled over into the mortal realm.  The war was initially fought in Pandemonium over the Worldstone.  It is said that whoever controlled the Worldstone had the ability to shape reality and create life and worlds almost without restriction.  Sometimes the battle would reach the gates of the heavenly and hellish realms themselves.  While the Great Conflict burned hotter and longer than any of the stars in the sky, neither side could gain dominion over the other for long.  Both factions sought some way to turn the tides of the war to their favor.  Eventually the forces of hell (evil aligned outer planes) learned of the material plane.  Not wanting to attract the attention of hte heavens' they worked in secret to try to corrupt humanity.  Eventually the heavenes found out about the material plane as well and moved to destroy it for it's corruption.  The heavenes evnetually voted to spare the material plane and a truce was reached with the hellish armies:  both factions would respect the material plane's right to exist.  However, demons being demons, had no intention of honoring the truce." ([reference](http://diablo.wikia.com/wiki/Great_Conflict))

> **Charn**:  "... Charn was once accessible from the Wood Between the WOrlds, but the pool dried up after the defeat of the world's ruler Jadis.  The world has since been recreated as a pocket dimesion existing parallel to The Grey Waste.  The sun of charn is old, red, and far larger than that of the material plane.  The sky is ablue so dark that it is nearly black.  There is one moon that hangs adjacent to hte sun.  The air is thin and cold and htere has been no visible water since the extinction of Charn's people.  The capital city, also named Charn, contains a Hall of Images of past rulers that initially began in an age of wisdom and benevolence, but evnetually turned away into corruption, cruelty, and evil.  In another age and universe, Jadis was initially imprisoned in the world after destroying her people.  She was accidnetally awoken by a curious humanoid who rang magical bell, unknowningly waking her.  At it's height the city of Charn was a war-like empire was described as a city of the King of Kings, the wonder of the world, perhaps all worlds.  The natural inhabitants of Charn are descendent from Djinn and Giants and magic use was common practice when the world was inhabited." ([reference 1](http://narnia.wikia.com/wiki/Charn_(world)), [reference 2](http://narnia.wikia.com/wiki/Charn_(city)))

> **Cosmology (part ?)**:  In another age, there was a great battle between the high heavens and the burnging hells to claim the souls of humanity.  The outcome was a stalemate and the decision that this world, Sanctuary, would be left to decide it's own fate.  Bands of adventurers have battled many great evils time and time again here including Mephisto (lord of hatred), Diablo (lord of terror), Baal (lord of destruction), Andariel (maiden of anguish), Duriel (lord of pain), Belial (lord of lies), and Azmodan (lord of sin).

> **Cosmology (part ?):  Pandemonium - "location of the sin war, 'scar' of separation between Anu and Tiamat"

> **The Entropy Tide (part I)**:  A ship of great power must always come at a great cost.  Though clearly heralding a necrotic energy from the seas, the exact origins of the ship are unknown.  However, Digoria is not the first captian, nor Ellion Stryfe.  Stryfe has suggested that Digoria's mother (assumed dead) was once captain of the ship.  Failing to uphold the bargain one strikes to gain captainhood of the ship results in becoming one of the mindless undead crew for all eternity.

> **The Entropy Tide (part II):**  The ship's name suggests, when the tide breaks, after radnomness has reached critical mass, chaos is loosed on the world.  

>